Turned his face to the milk white wall And death was on him dwellin' Farewell, farewell to all false maids And oh to Barbara Ellen When she was walkin' in the field She heard the death bell knellin'
And every toll it seemed to say.
Hard-hearted Barbara Ellen.
She looked to the east and she looked to the west.
Lay down, lay down, lay down, lay down, lay, lay the cold cause that I may gaze upon him.
Oh, mother, mother, go make my shroud, go make it long.
Sweet William died for me today And I'll die for him tomorrow They buried her in the lone churchyard Sweet William lay and I heard And out of his grave grew a red, red rose
and out of her grave grew a briar.
They climbed, they climbed to the tall church top till they could go no higher.
And there they tied in true lover's knot the rose wrapped around the briar.